ffgithubrunners: single-use GitHub Actions runners in rootless containers
=========================================================================

Revision 2, 2026-08-27. Replaces revision 1's KVM guest model with rootless containers. Section
4 records what revision 1 got wrong and why, because the reasoning was not obviously bad and
will be re-proposed by anyone who reads only the requirements. Revision 1 is kept in the git
history; nothing else in this file refers to it.

Revision 1, 2026-08-27. Single-use KVM guests. Superseded.

Scope: replace the four hand-installed GitHub Actions runners in /opt/github-actions-runner-N
with a checked-in, reinstallable harness that runs every CI job in a throwaway rootless
container. Covers the host layout, the image, the workspace, the slot lifecycle, the GitHub
identity, what replaces game-ci, the install script, the boundary with ffbox, and what stays
unsolved. Assumes an empty box: nothing here uninstalls the current runners.

Why this exists: the runners today are unpacked tarballs that a person configured by hand and
that nothing in git describes. That is two problems wearing one coat. The reinstall problem is
that rebuilding this machine means remembering what was typed in August. The isolation problem
is worse: main.yml triggers on [push, pull_request] with `runs-on: self-hosted`, GitHub
evaluates the workflow file from the pushed branch, and every step outside the game-ci container
runs directly on this host as FinalFactoryTester. Anyone who can push a branch to any repo in
the Final-Factory org can read that account's git credential, its Claude token, and its rootless
Docker socket. The game-ci container is not a boundary, because it wraps one step of a job whose
other steps the attacker also writes.


0. What this must do
--------------------

  1. ONE JOB PER CONTAINER. A job runs in a container that did not exist before the job and does
     not exist after it. Nothing a job writes reaches the next job except through GitHub.

  2. NO CREDENTIAL ON THE WORKLOAD ACCOUNT. The account whose namespace a job runs in must hold
     nothing worth stealing. Separately, the account holding the credential that mints runner
     registrations must not be reachable from inside a job. See docs/ci-runner-security-findings.md
     finding F1, which is the reason this is a requirement rather than a nicety.

  3. NO UNATTENDED ROOT. Carried from design/rootless_docker_design.txt section 0. A process with
     no human at a keyboard must not be able to become root on this host. Install-time root is
     fine; a human types that. This design needs NO sudo grant at run time at all, which is a
     stronger position than revision 1 reached.

  4. NOTHING THE HOST WRITES IS READ BACK FROM THE CONTAINER. No writable bind mount out of a
     job, and no host-side command run against a directory a job wrote. Finding F7 is the live
     instance of that pattern elsewhere on this box, and this design must not add a second one.

  5. GAME-CI'S USEFUL BEHAVIOUR IS PRESERVED, ITS LICENCE LEAK IS NOT. Section 10. Activation
     must give the seat back on every exit path including a kill, which is more than game-ci
     manages today (fact o).

  6. REINSTALLABLE FROM GIT. One command on a bare Ubuntu box with ZFS reproduces the whole
     thing.

  7. SEPARATE FROM FFBOX. No shared folders, scripts, datasets, systemd units, images, Docker
     daemons, networks or user accounts, and no import of ffbox code. Both systems now run
     rootless containers on the same machine, which makes this harder to hold than it was in
     revision 1 and therefore more worth stating. Section 3.

  8. NO WORSE THAN TODAY ON WALL CLOCK. Fact m says the ram disk is the whole game. Section 15
     measures it rather than assuming it.

Explicitly NOT a requirement: protecting a job from itself. A job gets namespace-root inside its
own container and is welcome to it.


1. Verified facts
-----------------

Measured on Loth2400 on 2026-08-27, not assumed.

  a. THE RUNNERS ARE PERSISTENT AND ORG-SCOPED. Four Runner.Listener processes under
     run-helper.sh, no systemd units, no "ephemeral" key in any .runner. All four register
     against https://github.com/Final-Factory, the ORG. Credentials sit on disk: .credentials
     (mode 0664) and .credentials_rsaparams (0600) per runner.

  b. THE HOST IS A DELL POWEREDGE R720. Two Xeon E5-2680 v2, 10 cores each with SMT, 40 logical
     CPUs. 755 GB RAM. Bare metal.

  c. NUMA IS TWO NODES WITH INTERLEAVED CPU NUMBERING. Even logical CPUs are node 0, odd are
     node 1; SMT siblings are 20 apart. Node distances 10 local, 20 remote. Recorded because it
     shaped revision 1; under containers it is background rather than a design input.

  d. VIRTUALBOX WAS TRIED HERE AND REMOVED. 7.0.16 and 7.1.16 both in rc state, a VM directory at
     ~lothsahn/VirtualBox VMs/RRobin. KVM is present and unused. The owner's account of the
     VirtualBox era is that guests locked up.

  e. ARC IS UNCAPPED AND SWAP IS 2 GB. zfs_arc_max is 0, so c_max is 377.9 GB, half of RAM. ARC
     held 26.0 GB while the box was idle, at a 99.1% hit rate. Two gigabytes of swap means
     memory pressure does not degrade, it fails.

  f. THERE IS ROOM. rpool is 3.62T with 2.14T free.

  g. RUNNER 2.336.0 SUPPORTS WHAT THIS NEEDS. --ephemeral is documented in its own --help as
     "only take one job and then let the service un-configure the runner after the job
     finishes". GetJitConfig is in Runner.Listener.dll, JitConfig in Runner.Common.dll.

  h. THE WORKFLOWS ROUTE ON LABELS, NOT NAMES. main.yml and deploy.yml use
     `runs-on: self-hosted`. determinism-nightly.yml uses `runs-on: [finalfactory-mode2-windows]`
     and is a Windows runner this design does not touch.

  i. GAME-CI EXPOSES NO ISOLATION CONTROLS. Its declared inputs, read from the worker log on this
     box, are dockerCpuLimit, dockerMemoryLimit, dockerIsolationMode, chownFilesTo,
     runAsHostUser, sshAgent, customImage, containerRegistryRepository and
     containerRegistryImageVersion. Resource caps and file ownership, nothing else.

  j. THE HOST ACCOUNT IS RICH AND DOES EVERYTHING. FinalFactoryTester runs the runners, owns the
     rootless daemon at /run/user/1015/docker.sock, runs ffbox's containers, holds
     .git-credentials in plaintext, .claude/.credentials.json and .config/ffbox/secrets.env, is
     in the sudo group, and is logged into interactively. Finding F1.

  k. _work IS A 40 GB TMPFS. makeRamDisk.sh mounts one per runner.

  l. FFBOX SHARES THIS BOX AND HAS THE SAME RESOURCE SHAPE. max_concurrent_runs defaults to 2,
     the README documents 8, the owner's target is 4. The owner measures a run at about 32 GB of
     RAM plus disk, and about 72 GB if it moves to a ram disk. Its containers carry no cpuset.
     Section 5.3 budgets for eight identical 72 GB Unity workloads, four of each.

  m. THE RAM DISK IS WORTH ABOUT 4x. Build and test on the tmpfs _work runs about 15 minutes
     against about an hour on ZFS-backed storage. Measured by the owner on this box with ARC
     already in play, so this is tmpfs against ZFS-plus-cache, not tmpfs against cold disk. It is
     the largest single performance lever in the system and the memory budget is built on it.

  n. FFBOX'S IMAGE IS THE GAME-CI IMAGE. ffbox/Dockerfile opens
     `FROM unityci/editor:ubuntu-6000.3.19f1-windows-mono-3.2.2`, the same tag main.yml passes as
     customImage, with a comment requiring the two be kept in lockstep. The container already IS
     the Unity environment, so there is no nested-Docker problem to solve. This fact is what
     revision 1 did not know.

  o. FFBOX ALREADY RETURNS UNITY SEATS CORRECTLY AND GAME-CI DOES NOT. ffbox/unity-license.sh
     installs `trap return_license EXIT INT TERM`, and its own comment states that game-ci's
     return_license.sh is an ordinary step which "a cancelled or crashed job never reaches. That
     is how CI quietly leaks seats." Revision 1 recorded licence churn as a risk this design
     might create. It is a bug the current setup already has.

  p. THE HOST-READS-CONTAINER-OUTPUT PATTERN IS ALREADY A HOLE HERE. ffbox bind-mounts the
     workspace read-write and the host runs git in that directory afterwards. Finding F7.
     Requirement 4 exists so this design does not repeat it.


2. The shape
------------

Four slots. Each slot keeps one runner registered with GitHub and idle, exactly as today. When a
slot's runner takes a job it runs it, deregisters itself, and its container exits. The
supervisor removes the container and starts a replacement that registers and goes idle.

Steady state is four runners online waiting for work, which is what the org settings page shows
today. Ephemeral describes what happens to a runner after its job, not when it is created. There
is no queued-job detector anywhere in this design, because a runner is always already listening.

    mint JIT config  ->  docker run --rm  ->  runner idles
      ->  runner takes one job, runs it, deregisters, container exits
      ->  remove container, DELETE the registration
      ->  supervisor exits, systemd restarts it

The loop is Restart=always on a unit that handles one job and exits. Nothing polls GitHub,
nothing receives a webhook, and no inbound port is opened.

Container start is about a second, so the gap between a runner exiting and its replacement going
online is small enough not to need the busy-triggered replacement that revision 1 planned for.


3. The boundary with ffbox
--------------------------

Requirement 7, and it needs more care now than it did in revision 1. Two systems running
rootless Unity containers on one box look alike enough that sharing becomes tempting by
accident.

WHAT IS BORROWED, as ideas only, each reimplemented here:

  - Building the image FROM the exact unityci/editor tag CI uses, so what runs here and what
    runs in CI are the same Unity (fact n).
  - Returning the Unity seat from a trap rather than a step (fact o).
  - Numbered, independently re-runnable install stages with the order in the filenames.
  - Rendering systemd units from templates in git rather than keeping a second copy on disk.
  - The principle that an unattended process must not be able to become root.

WHAT IS NOT SHARED, and must never become shared:

  - Folders. ffgithubrunners/ at the repo root, beside ffbox/, never inside it. No file in ffbox/
    is read, sourced, imported or called by anything here.
  - THE DOCKER DAEMON. This is the sharpest edge in revision 2 and it did not exist in revision 1.
    ffbox's rootless daemon is FinalFactoryTester's, at /run/user/1015/docker.sock, data root
    /opt/ffbox_docker. This design runs its OWN rootless daemon under its own account with its
    own data root. Reaching for the existing socket would collapse requirement 2, requirement 7
    and the account split in one move, and it will look like an obvious shortcut. It is not one.
  - Images. ffbox:latest is ffbox's. ffghrunner:latest is this one's. Both are built FROM the
    same public unityci/editor tag, which is the shared idea, not a shared artefact.
  - Networks. Separate Docker networks on separate daemons.
  - Datasets. rpool/ffgithubrunners/*. ffbox owns rpool/ff/*.
  - The FinalFactory checkout. ffbox's rpool/ff/golden is mounted at /opt/FinalFactory. This
    design does not read, clone, snapshot or mount it; section 6 gets its own checkout from
    GitHub at image build time.
  - User accounts, systemd units and targets, configuration and secrets, environment prefix
    (FFGITHUBRUNNERS_*, never FFBOX_*).

THE UNAVOIDABLE OVERLAP is the machine. The ARC cap (5.3), any nftables rules (5.5) and the host
package set are host-wide; there is one of each. Add plain CPU and memory contention, budgeted in
5.3. That is coexistence on shared hardware, not shared implementation.

Fact l says an ffbox run and a CI job are the same size and shape. That is a shared design
concept, which requirement 7 permits, and it is why 5.3 budgets one pool of eight workloads. It
is NOT an argument for merging the systems, and nothing here reads ffbox's configuration at run
time to discover its concurrency: the eight-workload figure is written down in 5.3 and changed by
a human when ffbox changes.


4. Why containers, and why revision 1 said otherwise
----------------------------------------------------

Revision 1 chose KVM guests on two arguments. One was wrong on the facts and the other was
weaker than it looked.

THE ARGUMENT THAT WAS WRONG. Revision 1 held that a container could not run these jobs without
nested Docker, because game-ci works by running `docker run unityci/editor`, and that mounting a
socket in reproduces the hole rootless_docker_design.txt section 1a closed. That is true of a
job container that then calls game-ci. It is not true of the model ffbox already uses: fact n
says ffbox's image IS unityci/editor, so the container is the Unity environment and nothing is
nested. Revision 1 treated "drop game-ci" as an expensive unknown. Fact o says the expensive part
is already written, works better than the thing it replaces, and fixes a seat leak in the
process.

THE ARGUMENT THAT WAS WEAK. Revision 1 held that a VM boundary is easier to state than a
container one. True in general. Less decisive here, because this box already runs a workload with
bare Bash, reachable by a stranger's Discord message, in a rootless container, and
design/single_lane_design.txt records the owner accepting that. A second, stronger isolation
technology for CI is defensible, but it is a marginal improvement over the containment already
in use, not a categorical one.

WHAT CONTAINERS BUY, beyond removing that mistake:

  - MEMORY BECOMES A CEILING INSTEAD OF A RESERVATION. A guest holds its RAM whether it uses it
    or not. A container with --memory=72g uses what it uses, and the unused remainder is
    available to ARC, to the page cache, and to the other seven workloads. On this box that is
    the difference between committing 576 GB and typically using a good deal less. Section 5.3.
  - NO BOOT. About a second against about thirty.
  - NO HYPERVISOR TUNING. Revision 1's whole vCPU, NUMA, interleave and topology section
    evaporates. CFS and the page cache already do the right thing.
  - NO ROOT GRANT AT ALL. Revision 1 needed anchored sudoers rules for zfs clone and destroy per
    job. This design needs none: there is nothing to clone, because the image is shared read-only
    and the workspace is tmpfs. Requirement 3 is met by having no mechanism rather than by
    constraining one.
  - ONE MODEL ON THE BOX instead of two.

WHAT IT COSTS:

  - A WEAKER BOUNDARY. The kernel is shared. Section 14 is honest about which escape classes
    that changes and which it does not.
  - THE WORKFLOWS CHANGE. Revision 1 had "no workflow changes" as requirement 4. Section 10 is
    the replacement work.
  - IF A FUTURE WORKFLOW NEEDS `docker build`, this puts the nesting problem back. Recorded in 17.

The choice is also more reversible than it looks. Sections 2, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 12 are the harness,
and they are identical either way. Only "start a slot" and "destroy a slot" differ.


5. Host layout
--------------

5.1 TWO ACCOUNTS, NOT ONE

Finding F1 is that one account on this box runs everything and holds everything. This design does
not add a third instance of that.

  ffghr-super   runs the supervisor units. Holds the GitHub App private key at
                /etc/ffgithubrunners/github-app.pem, mode 0600. Not in sudo, not in docker, no
                login shell. It talks to ffghr-run's daemon socket to start and stop containers.

  ffghr-run     owns the rootless Docker daemon and therefore the namespace every job runs in.
                Its home is EMPTY: no tokens, no git credential, no ssh key, no sudo, no login
                shell, nothing in .config. This is the account a container escape lands on, and
                the whole point of it is that landing there is worth nothing.

ffghr-super reaches the socket through a group, or an ACL on /run/user/<ffghr-run-uid>/docker.sock.
The direction matters and only works one way: super can drive run's daemon, and a job inside that
daemon cannot reach super's files.

Neither account gets a sudoers entry. Section 4 explains why none is needed.

5.2 THE CI DOCKER DAEMON

A second rootless daemon, ffghr-run's, entirely separate from ffbox's (section 3). Data root on
its own dataset:

    rpool/ffgithubrunners            container, mountpoint=none
    rpool/ffgithubrunners/docker     the daemon's data root, compression=lz4

It holds one image. There are no per-job datasets, no zvols, no clones and nothing to destroy
after a job, because the image is shared read-only and the workspace is tmpfs.

A quota on the dataset is worth setting so a runaway image build cannot fill rpool and take ffbox
down with it. That is the only coupling left between the two systems' storage and it runs through
the pool, not through any shared path.

5.3 MEMORY: LIMITS, NOT RESERVATIONS

Fact e first, because it is the thing that hurts a ZFS host: ARC is uncapped, so c_max is 377.9
GB. It is small only because the box is idle; under load it climbs, and workloads then allocate
against memory ARC gives back slowly. Stage 1 writes /etc/modprobe.d/zfs.conf with zfs_arc_max at
48 GB and rebuilds the initramfs. That is a host-wide setting shared with ffbox, per section 3.

Each CI container gets:

    --memory=72g
    --tmpfs /work:size=40g,mode=1777

40 GB of that is the ram disk fact m says is worth 45 minutes a job, and the remaining 32 GB
covers Unity, the runner process and the container's page cache. Fact l is that ffbox measures
the same Unity work at 32 GB, so the second number has evidence behind it rather than being a
guess.

tmpfs pages count against the container's memory cgroup, so those are one budget and not two.
Filling /work to 40 GB while Unity holds 32 leaves nothing, and the cgroup OOM-kills the
container. That kills one job rather than destabilising the box, which is a better failure mode
than revision 1's, where the same arithmetic took out a guest.

Budget on this box, 755 GB, at the eight-workload target from fact l:

    ARC (capped)                     48 GB
    host, ffwatch, ffweb            ~24 GB
    8 Unity workloads x 72 GB       576 GB   4 ffbox + 4 CI, identical shape
    headroom                       ~107 GB

THE DIFFERENCE FROM REVISION 1 IS THAT THESE ARE CEILINGS. The sum of the limits fits inside RAM,
so there is no overcommit and no way for all eight to collectively exceed the machine. But a slot
sitting idle, or a job whose _work only reaches 15 GB, gives the difference back to ARC and the
page cache instead of holding it. The worst case is the same as revision 1's guaranteed case, and
the ordinary case is much better.

Because the limits sum under RAM, the headroom row is genuine slack rather than a safety margin
being spent. Fact e says there are 2 GB of swap, so it needs to stay genuine.

5.4 CPU

No mask. Every container may use all 40 threads, as ffbox's already do (fact l). No cpuset, no
cgroup cpuset partition, no isolcpus.

The reason is the workload. A Unity build is spiky: long stretches near idle, then a burst that
wants everything. Eight of them will not burst together, and partitioning 20 physical cores among
eight bursty consumers spends most of the day holding cores away from the one workload that could
use them. Leaving CFS alone means an idle slot's share goes to a busy one for free, with no
configuration and no coordination between two systems that are otherwise separate.

Fact c is recorded but is not a design input here. Without pinned vCPUs and hard-allocated guest
memory there is no NUMA placement decision to make: the kernel's own page allocation and
scheduling handle it, and a container's memory is ordinary process memory that can move.

If measurement ever shows CI starving ffbox or the reverse, the answer is CPUWeight= on the
slice, not a narrower mask. A mask gives back the idle-borrowing above and guarantees nothing.

5.5 NETWORK

A dedicated Docker network on the CI daemon. A job must reach GitHub, Unity licensing and the LFS
endpoints, and must reach neither this host nor the LAN.

Rootless gives one of those for free. rootless_docker_design.txt section 5 records the
measurement: under the ROOT daemon a container on an --internal network could still open 22 and
445 on the bridge gateway, and under rootless the bridge lives inside the rootlesskit network
namespace where the host is not on the other side of it at all.

The LAN is the open half. That same document records that a container on an ordinary bridge
network reaches this host's LAN. Under rootless the traffic leaves through slirp4netns and
appears to come from the host, which makes a simple host nftables rule less obviously sufficient
than it was in revision 1's tap-device model.

SO THIS IS A MEASUREMENT, NOT A DESIGN DECISION YET. Stage 1 installs a rule set; stage 6 does not
declare success until acceptance test 15.5 shows 192.168.51.0/24 unreachable from inside a
container while api.github.com is reachable. If the rule set cannot achieve that, the SNI
allowlist pattern becomes required rather than deferred, reimplemented on this daemon per
requirement 7 rather than shared. ffbox/egress/ffbox-egress.sh has FFBOX_EGRESS_MODE=log for
discovering such an allowlist, and reading it for the technique is allowed where copying it is
not.

Worth recording so it is not rediscovered: the runner talks to broker.actions.githubusercontent.com
and a pipelinesghubeus* host, not only api.github.com. The .runner file has useV2Flow true.


6. The image and the workspace
------------------------------

ONE IMAGE, ffghrunner:latest, built by stage 4 from a Dockerfile in this folder:

    FROM unityci/editor:ubuntu-6000.3.19f1-windows-mono-3.2.2

Same base as CI uses today and as ffbox uses, for the reason ffbox's Dockerfile records: if they
drift, a green run here stops predicting a green run there. The tag is pinned in one place and
tracked against UNITY_VERSION in main.yml.

On top of that:

  - the actions runner tarball at /opt/actions-runner, unconfigured
  - git, git-lfs
  - the /BlankProject scaffolding Unity's serial activation needs, which the base image does not
    carry (ffbox hit this and it is not obvious)
  - the entrypoint from section 7 and the licensing from section 10
  - A FINALFACTORY CHECKOUT WITH A BUILT UNITY LIBRARY, cloned from GitHub at build time, NOT
    from /opt/FinalFactory (section 3). A cold Unity import is plausibly 30 to 60 minutes and it
    belongs in the image rather than in every job.

THE WORKSPACE IS TMPFS AND NOTHING IS BIND-MOUNTED OUT. Requirement 4. The container gets
`--tmpfs /work:size=40g` and writes everything there. No host directory is mounted writable, no
host command runs against anything a job produced, and results leave the way GitHub expects them
to: the runner uploads its own artifacts and posts its own check results over its own connection.
This is the one place where this design is structurally safer than ffbox's, which bind-mounts a
workspace the host then runs git in (fact p, finding F7).

THE LIBRARY PROBLEM, and the one piece of cleverness in this document. The baked Library is in the
image, which is read-only and shared by all four containers. Unity needs to write to it. Copying
15 GB from the image into tmpfs at container start costs RAM and start-up time on every job.

The intended answer is an overlay assembled by the entrypoint: the image's Library as lowerdir,
a directory on the container's tmpfs as upperdir and workdir. Reads come from the image, are
page-cached once, and are shared across all four containers. Writes land in tmpfs at RAM speed.
Nothing is copied. Unprivileged overlayfs inside a user namespace has been available since kernel
5.11 and this host runs 6.8.

That needs proving before it is relied on. THE FALLBACK IS A PLAIN COPY into tmpfs at start,
which costs start-up time and duplicates the Library four times in RAM, and which would push the
tmpfs allocation up. Open question 17b.

The image is rebuilt by `ffgithubrunners image update`, which pulls the checkout, rebuilds the
Library and retags. A weekly timer runs it. A stale image is a speed problem, not a correctness
one: a job whose baked Library is a week old still passes, it just imports more.


7. The slot lifecycle
---------------------

HOST SIDE, one instance of ffgithubrunners@.service per slot, running as ffghr-super:

  1. Read /etc/ffgithubrunners/secrets.env and slots.conf.
  2. Mint an installation token from the GitHub App, then POST
     /orgs/Final-Factory/actions/runners/generate-jitconfig with the slot's name, label set and
     runner group. Keep the returned runner id.
  3. `docker run --rm` against ffghr-run's daemon, with the flags in 5.3, the network from 5.5,
     the hardening in 14, the JIT config passed in the environment, and no bind mounts.
  4. Wait for the container to exit, with a watchdog.
  5. Teardown, unconditionally: remove the container if it is still there, then DELETE the runner
     registration.
  6. Exit 0. systemd restarts the unit and the slot comes back.

CONTAINER SIDE, the entrypoint:

  1. Assemble the Library overlay per section 6.
  2. Activate the Unity licence and install the return trap, per section 10.
  3. exec /opt/actions-runner/bin/Runner.Listener run --jitconfig "$JIT".
  4. The trap returns the seat on every exit path.

The runner deregisters itself on a normal exit, so step 5's DELETE returns 404 on the happy path.
That is fine and is why it is unconditional.

The watchdog sits ABOVE the workflow's own timeout, not below it. main.yml sets
timeout-minutes: 90, so the slot watchdog defaults to 120 and a job GitHub is still willing to
run is never killed by this harness. Per-slot in slots.conf, because the determinism work may
want longer.

THE JIT CONFIG GOES IN AS AN ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE, and finding F6 says environment secrets are
readable by anything in the container. That is acceptable here in a way it is not for ffbox's
Claude token: this credential is single-use, scoped to one job, belongs to the job anyway, and is
dead the moment the job ends. It is not a standing credential wearing a disguise.


8. GitHub identity
------------------

A GITHUB APP, not a PAT. administration: write on the org, installed on the org. Private key at
/etc/ffgithubrunners/github-app.pem, owned by ffghr-super, mode 0600. No container ever sees it.

JIT CONFIG, not a registration token. JIT runners are implicitly ephemeral and the config never
lands on disk, which removes the .credentials and .credentials_rsaparams files of fact a rather
than reproducing them somewhere new. Finding F3.

NAMES ARE FOR HUMANS. runs-on matches labels, so the per-run name is
ffghr-loth2400-<slot>-<runid> and changes every job without affecting routing. Encoding the slot
and run id is what lets the reaper tell an abandoned registration from a live one.

LABELS: the defaults self-hosted, Linux, X64, plus ffgithubrunners. Keeping self-hosted means
main.yml and deploy.yml keep routing here unchanged.

A RUNNER GROUP scoped to the FinalFactory repository only. Fact a and finding F2: the runners are
org-wide today, so any repo in the org, including one added later with looser write settings, can
run code on this box. The group is a field in the same generate-jitconfig call.


9. Teardown and reaping
-----------------------

The happy path deregisters itself. Two paths do not.

A CONTAINER KILLED MID-JOB never calls back, so step 5's DELETE is what removes it. This is why
the runner id is captured at mint time rather than looked up later.

A SUPERVISOR KILLED MID-JOB, by a reboot or SIGKILL, leaves a registration and possibly a
container. ffgithubrunners-reap.timer runs every 15 minutes and:

  - lists org runners carrying the ffgithubrunners label and deletes any that are offline and
    whose name encodes a run id with no matching container on this host;
  - removes any ffghr-* container on this daemon with no matching supervisor;
  - leaves anything it cannot explain alone, and logs it.

There is no storage to reap. --rm plus a tmpfs workspace means a dead container leaves nothing
behind, which is a simplification revision 1 did not have.

GitHub garbage-collects stale registrations eventually. The documented window should be checked
rather than trusted, and the reaper means it does not matter.


10. Replacing game-ci
---------------------

Requirement 5. This is the workflow-visible half of the change and the part that needs the most
care, because game-ci does several things and only one of them is hard.

WHAT IT DOES, and what replaces it:

  - Runs the editor in unityci/editor. Replaced by being in that image already (fact n).
  - Activates and returns the Unity licence. Replaced by the trap pattern of fact o. This is an
    IMPROVEMENT, not parity: game-ci returns the seat in an ordinary step, so a cancelled or
    killed job leaks it, and cancelled jobs are exactly what an ephemeral harness produces. The
    trap catches EXIT, INT and TERM. SIGKILL still cannot be caught by anything in-process, which
    is why the watchdog in section 7 sends TERM first and waits.
  - Runs the tests. A `run:` step invoking unity-editor -runTests with the arguments main.yml
    already passes through, plus -logfile /dev/stdout which it already sets.
  - Posts check annotations via githubToken. NOT replaced by this design. The results are uploaded
    as artifacts and the workflow uses a test-reporter action, or the check is dropped. This is
    the one genuine loss and it should be a decision rather than a discovery.
  - Coverage options. Passed through to the same Unity arguments.

The workflow edit is one `uses:` step becoming a `run:` step in main.yml, and the same in
deploy.yml for unity-builder. determinism-nightly.yml is untouched.

THIS IS ALSO THE ANSWER TO REVISION 1'S OPEN QUESTION ON LICENCE CHURN. That revision recorded
ephemeral runners as a risk to seat management. With the trap it is the opposite: the harness
returns seats more reliably than the arrangement it replaces.


11. The install script
----------------------

ffgithubrunners/setup.sh: POSIX sh, set -eu, numbered stages with the order in the filenames,
every stage independently re-runnable and a no-op when already satisfied. The shape is borrowed
from ffbox per section 3; none of the code is.

    01-hostSetup.sh   docker and its rootless extras, nftables, uidmap. The ffghr-super and
                      ffghr-run accounts, their subuid/subgid ranges, the socket ACL between
                      them. The ARC cap and initramfs rebuild. The network rules of 5.5.
                      No sudoers file, because nothing here needs one.
    02-zfsSetup.sh    rpool/ffgithubrunners and the docker data root, properties and quota
                      per 5.2.
    03-daemon.sh      ffghr-run's rootless daemon as a user service, pointed at that data root,
                      plus the wait-for-socket gate the units order behind.
    04-image.sh       build ffghrunner:latest per section 6, clone the checkout, warm the
                      Library, verify the overlay assumption of 17b.
    05-github.sh      take App id, installation id and key path; verify the App can mint a JIT
                      config and see the runner group; write /etc/ffgithubrunners/secrets.env.
    06-services.sh    render ffgithubrunners/systemd/*.template into /etc/systemd/system, enable
                      and start ffgithubrunners.target. Root only; --check runs without it.

Stage 4 is the slow one, for the reason ffbox's stage 4 is slow: the Unity import happens once in
the image and every job after that shares it.

Stages 1, 2 and 6 change the system and need root. Stages 3, 4 and 5 write configuration and the
image. Resolving who the units should name follows FFGITHUBRUNNERS_RUN_USER, then SUDO_USER, then
the checkout owner. ffbox's 06-services.sh records why SUDO_USER alone is not enough: run from a
systemd timer as root there is no SUDO_USER at all, and every automatic re-install rendered the
units pointing at root's home. Same trap, own implementation.

Templates in ffgithubrunners/systemd/ are the only source, rendered into a throwaway directory
and installed from there, so no second copy on disk can disagree with git.

    ffgithubrunners/
      setup.sh
      01-hostSetup.sh  02-zfsSetup.sh  03-daemon.sh
      04-image.sh  05-github.sh  06-services.sh
      Dockerfile
      entrypoint.sh                    overlay, licence, exec the runner
      unity-license.sh                 activation and the return trap (own implementation)
      ffgithubrunners                  the CLI, section 12
      lib/gh.sh                        App JWT, installation token, jitconfig, delete
      systemd/ffgithubrunners@.service one slot, Restart=always
      systemd/ffgithubrunners.target
      systemd/ffgithubrunners-dockerd.service
      systemd/ffgithubrunners-reap.{service,timer}
      systemd/ffgithubrunners-image.{service,timer}
      secrets.env.example
      README.md


12. The ffgithubrunners command
-------------------------------

    ffgithubrunners status              slots, containers, registrations, image tag and age
    ffgithubrunners slot stop|start N   drain or return one slot
    ffgithubrunners drain               let running jobs finish, start no replacements
    ffgithubrunners image update        pull, rebuild the Library, retag
    ffgithubrunners reap                run the section 9 sweep now
    ffgithubrunners logs N              the last job's container log for one slot

drain matters more than it looks. Updating the image or changing slots.conf while jobs are
running should not kill them, and draining is how to get to an idle box without watching it.


13. What changes in FinalFactory
--------------------------------

Two `uses:` steps become `run:` steps, per section 10: unity-test-runner in main.yml and
unity-builder in deploy.yml. `runs-on: self-hosted` is unchanged because routing is by label.
determinism-nightly.yml is untouched.

The Library restore and save through actions/cache can stay or go. It is now partly redundant,
because the image carries a warm Library, and it is a cross-branch contamination channel
(finding F8). Removing it is a reasonable second step and is not required for this design to
work.


14. Security properties
-----------------------

WHAT THIS FIXES relative to today. A malicious workflow gets namespace-root in a container that
has no host filesystem mounted, no writable bind mount at all, one single-use GitHub credential
scoped to one job, a lifetime bounded by the watchdog, and an account underneath it that owns
nothing. It cannot read .git-credentials, .claude/.credentials.json or ffbox's secrets.env,
because those belong to FinalFactoryTester and this runs as ffghr-run. It cannot reach ffbox's
Docker socket, which is a different daemon under a different user. It cannot leave anything for
the next job. The org-wide runner grant narrows to one repository, and the runner credentials
stop existing on disk.

THE FLAGS, from finding F5, which ffbox does not currently pass and this design does from the
start:

    --cap-drop=ALL --security-opt=no-new-privileges
    --pids-limit=<n> --memory=72g
    --read-only where the image tolerates it, with tmpfs for what must be writable
    default seccomp, never seccomp=unconfined

WHAT IT DOES NOT FIX. Section 4 of docs/ci-runner-security-findings.md lists the escape classes.
Briefly, against this design:

  - Class 1, what you handed over: the JIT config, discussed in section 7. Bounded.
  - Class 2, data flow across the boundary: removed by requirement 4. This is the class that bit
    ffbox (F7) and this design has no writable bind mount and no host-side command run against
    job output.
  - Class 3, runc and crun bugs: lands the attacker on ffghr-run, which owns nothing. Mitigated
    by 5.1, not eliminated. Keep docker and runc current.
  - Class 4, kernel exploitation from the user namespace: NOT mitigated. This is the one a VM
    would have changed, and choosing containers is choosing to accept it. The control is patching
    the kernel, and there is no other one.
  - Repository secrets: a job that legitimately runs still receives UNITY_LICENSE, UNITY_EMAIL,
    UNITY_PASSWORD, UNITY_SERIAL and a GITHUB_TOKEN because the workflow asks for them. Anyone
    with write access can print them. Nothing at this layer changes that.
  - actions/cache: finding F8, unchanged by any of this.

That is the honest trade. Classes 1 to 3 are handled about as well here as they would have been
under KVM. Class 4 is the price of the decision in section 4.


15. Acceptance
--------------

  1. Build the image, run one container by hand, run the editmode suite in it, and compare wall
     clock against the same suite on the host. Requirement 8. Fact m means the number to watch is
     whether _work is really on tmpfs and really being used.
  2. Confirm the overlay of section 6 works unprivileged in this container on kernel 6.8, and
     that Unity writes to the Library land in tmpfs rather than the image layer. If not, fall
     back per 17b and re-measure 1.
  3. Measure container start to runner-online. Expect a second or two.
  4. Push a branch. Confirm the job lands, the runner disappears from the org page when it ends,
     and a replacement appears.
  5. Kill a container mid-job. Confirm the registration is gone within one reap interval, the
     slot comes back, and the Unity seat was returned.
  6. FROM INSIDE A CONTAINER, confirm 192.168.51.0/24 and this host's addresses are unreachable
     and api.github.com is reachable. This one gates 5.5; if it fails the SNI allowlist is
     required, not deferred.
  7. From inside a container, confirm /run/user/1015/docker.sock is not reachable and
     FinalFactoryTester's home is not readable.
  8. Reboot the host. Confirm four slots come back with no hand-holding and ffbox.target comes
     back independently.
  9. Run a real PR's worth of jobs with four ffbox runs going at the same time. Check that a lone
     CI job still soaks most of the box and that eight hot workloads divide it without either
     system starving. If one starves, reach for CPUWeight, never a mask.


16. Out of scope
----------------

  - Removing the existing /opt/github-actions-runner-N installs. Assumes an empty box.
  - The Windows determinism runner.
  - actions/cache, per section 13.
  - Any change to ffbox, per section 3 and requirement 7. That includes the fixes in
    docs/ci-runner-security-findings.md that apply to ffbox rather than to this system.
  - Check annotations from the test run, per section 10.


17. Open questions
------------------

  a. THE NETWORK MEASUREMENT IN 5.5, which is the one that could still force real work. Under
     rootless the host is unreachable for free, but the LAN may not be, and slirp4netns makes a
     plain host nftables rule less obviously sufficient. Acceptance test 15.6 decides whether an
     SNI allowlist has to be built in revision 2 or can wait.
  b. THE LIBRARY OVERLAY IN SECTION 6. Unprivileged overlayfs in a user namespace on kernel 6.8,
     with the image as lowerdir and tmpfs as upperdir. If it does not work, the fallback is a
     copy at start, which costs start-up time and four copies of the Library in RAM, and which
     changes the tmpfs sizing in 5.3.
  c. PIDS-LIMIT AND THE REAL MEMORY SHAPE. --pids-limit needs a number that a real Unity import
     does not trip. The 32 GB non-tmpfs half has fact l behind it but has not been measured for a
     containerised RUNNER as opposed to a containerised agent.
  d. WHETHER --read-only IS TOLERABLE for this image, or whether Unity and the runner need enough
     scattered writable paths that the tmpfs list becomes unmanageable.
  e. WHETHER TO DROP actions/cache FOR Library, per section 13 and finding F8.
  f. WHETHER FFBOX SHOULD ADOPT A RAM DISK. Fact m is a property of Unity on ZFS, not of this
     harness, so ffbox's runs are paying the same cost. Out of bounds to act on, and it fits the
     budget in 5.3 if it happens. Noted so it is a decision rather than a collision.
  g. IF A FUTURE WORKFLOW NEEDS `docker build`, this design has no answer that does not
     reintroduce nesting. Revisit the section 4 choice if that day comes rather than bolting a
     socket in.
