Trusted ingress: who may be told what, and who may be obeyed
============================================================
Draft for review. Proposed as section 23 of discord_persistent_design.txt.

Revision 17, 2026-09-03: SECTION 11 IS AMENDED IN BOTH DIRECTIONS. An operator's DM stops
being framed as a forum post, and a player's DM stops being answered with silence.

The framing half. Revision 14 made everything that had been conditional on `lane == "shell"`
conditional on is_local_conversation, on the reasoning that the real question was whether there
is a thread on the other end. That was one question doing the work of two, and section 11 is
where they come apart: an operator's DM has a thread AND was typed by somebody this box already
trusts. It therefore arrived inside the <discord> fence, labelled untrusted, under the
player-facing disclosure rules — the same treatment that once turned a locally typed question
into a policy refusal addressed to a player. So there are now two predicates. is_local_conversation
still decides WHERE THE ANSWER GOES (job["local"]: no thread, no outbound row, the record is the
reply). is_direct_conversation decides WHOSE WORDS THESE ARE (job["direct"]: shell, web, or
operator_dm — no fence, no untrusted framing, no role, no player policy). discord-task.sh picks
between three preambles instead of two; the DM one is the local one with the answer posted and
written to Discord's 2000 characters. An operator DM can carry attachments where a shell prompt
cannot, so the direct prompt names their downloaded paths, which only the fenced branch used to.

The silence half. This section argued that ignoring a non-operator DM was a deliberate choice
rather than an oversight, and every word of that argument stands: a DM has no moderator, no
other players to correct a wrong answer, and no public record, which makes it the best available
place to work on a jailbreak in private. What it got wrong is that a policy nobody is told is
indistinguishable from a bot that is down. The listener now rings `player_dm` where it used to
emit nothing, and ffwatch answers it with one fixed sentence pointing at the public channels —
DM_AUTOREPLY_TEXT, composed on the host before the message is fetched, and the message is never
fetched. No conversation, no message row, no turn, no run, no classifier, no container. It is
queued as an ordinary outbound row with a NULL conversation_id so the kill switch, the send
ceilings, the retry and the page all apply; its local_id, `dm-autoreply:<author>:<message>`,
answers both "have we already said this" and "how recently did we say it to this person", the
second bounded at one an hour. The type-3 rule is unchanged and now covers the reply too: a group
DM gets nothing at all, since the note is for the surface it names and a room with an audience is
not that surface.

The rule at the listener becomes:

    no guild_id, and author.id in trust.operators   -> emit operator_dm
    no guild_id, anyone else                        -> emit player_dm

with ffwatch re-deciding which is which from the same authenticated id before it acts, so the
kind on the doorbell is a hint about work to do and never a grant of trust.

Revision 16, 2026-08-25: max_unity_runs IS GONE FROM THE CODE. Every mention of it anywhere in
this document is historical — section 13 argued to keep it and reframe it as a resource ceiling,
section 17 lists that reframing as work, and the notes at the end record it being raised from 1
to 2. None of that is current. Every concurrent run gets a Unity session, so max_concurrent_runs
bounds agents and editors with one number and is the only ceiling.

Revision 15, 2026-08-25: sections 8 and 13 are SUPERSEDED by design/single_lane_design.txt.
The lane system is removed and every run gets the dev capability set, so "which lane does this
ingress land in" stops being a question. What this document decided that OUTLIVES it, and that
the new design depends on: trust tier and venue are declared in config and looked up against
Discord's authenticated author.id, never inferred from message text (sections 3 and 4); the
engagement gate is a separate decision from capability (section 5) and is the half being kept;
the split reply is keyed on tier and venue rather than on lane (section 7), which is now the
only thing keeping repo internals out of a channel players read. Sections 1 through 7 and 9
through 12 stand.

Revision 1, 2026-08-22.
Revision 2, 2026-08-22: split replies (section 7), the web page trusted as an operator
surface rather than as a loopback accident (section 12), operator DMs may start work
(section 13), player-triggered work sketched (section 14).
Revision 3, 2026-08-22: the two operator ids are settled and written down (section 3); venue
becomes a declared property of a channel rather than an inference about who can read it, so
#dev-chat is private; section 9 now says which process decides tier and venue and what the
container is actually told.
Revision 4, 2026-08-22: venue and engagement are declared together on the watch entry
(section 5). Most channels wake only on a direct mention; bug_reports and suggestions run the
classifier on every message, and the classifier gains a no-action outcome so an all-engage
channel does not burn a run on "thanks".
Revision 5, 2026-08-22: the gate runs on every message in all three watched channels,
including the first message of a new thread, and its bias toward answering is written as
rules rather than as an adjective (section 5).
Revision 14, 2026-08-23: the shell lane is gone, merged into dev. It differed from dev in
exactly two fields — bare Bash, and no verdict schema — and neither difference survived the
question of who the lane is for. Both routes into dev are a person this box already trusts: an
operator whose author id Discord authenticated, or somebody with a login here. So dev takes
bare Bash (section 13's allow list narrows the lanes fed untrusted PLAYER text, and fix keeps
it for that reason), dev's daily rate limit is dropped, and a locally typed prompt runs under
the same structured verdict every other lane does — result_text unwraps `summary`, so the
person at the terminal reads what they always read.
  Everything that was conditional on `lane == "shell"` is now conditional on
is_local_conversation, which is the question that was actually being asked: is there a thread
on the other end of this. A local turn gets no <discord> fence, no outbound row, no
harness-owned verification, and no published branch. The container is told which case it is in
through job["local"] and picks its preamble from that, rather than inferring it from a missing
schema. Section 8's operator rule is unchanged; what changed is that its two destinations are
now the only two write lanes.
  The Discord-bound preambles also state the 2000-character message limit and ask for a
summary under 1500. The host already refused to lose an over-long reply (compose_head cuts at
HEAD_CAP and attaches the rest), but that safety net produces a thread post that stops
mid-sentence next to a file nobody opens; the lane writing it is now told the budget instead of
being truncated into it. Deliberately not on the local preamble, where nothing truncates.
  Schema v8 rewrites the rows that still say `shell`. The web page builds its lane filter from
DISTINCT over the data, so a stale value would keep offering a lane nothing can produce.

Revision 13, 2026-08-23: the page can CONTINUE a conversation, not only open one (section 12).
A reply box on /conversation/<id> adds a message to the end of a LOCAL conversation and the
turn it produces resumes that conversation's session. Discord threads are refused on both
sides, and a follow-up typed mid-run waits for the run in flight rather than racing it.
Revision 12, 2026-08-22: the web ingress gets its own conversation kind, `web` (section 12).
It is a label on the record, not a second pipeline: same lane, same capabilities, same private
venue, same absence of a Discord side.
Revision 11, 2026-08-22: Unity stops being optional anywhere. --no-unity is gone from ffbox,
from `ffwatch submit` and from the web prompt box, the per-lane unity key is gone from
LANE_CAPABILITIES, and the classifier stops being asked needs_unity (section 13).
Revision 10, 2026-08-22: the prompt box loses its flag — starting a conversation is what the
page is for, and the login is the grant (section 12). The bind is a deliberate LAN address on
the build server, so this section stops treating loopback as the thing holding the page shut.
Revision 9, 2026-08-22: the seat lock is gone. Revision 7 designed lazy activation and a
cross-container flock around a constraint that turned out to be a hedge rather than a
measurement; Lothsahn has run four game-ci containers in parallel with no licensing trouble, so
every lane simply activates as it always has and max_unity_runs stops being a licensing answer.
Revision 8, 2026-08-22: ffweb grew TLS and a login while this was being written, so section 12
stops claiming the page has no authentication. Operator identity on the web ingress is the
authenticated account name, not the fact that somebody reached the port.
Revision 7, 2026-08-22: every container is Unity-capable, read lanes included. Activation stops
being a launch-time decision and becomes a lazy, locked one, and the read lanes trade their
no-Bash property for exactly one command (section 13).
Revision 6, 2026-08-22: a review pass for ambiguity and for claims about the code. Corrects
how a DM is actually detected on the gateway (section 11), says which lane an operator message
gets rather than leaving the matrix and the watch kind to contradict each other (section 8),
separates the undeliverable private half from the approval queue's pending state (section 7),
names the two ffweb guards that do not cover a new flag for free (section 12), and replaces
file:line citations with symbol names, since the tree they pointed at is mid-change.

Revision 10, 2026-08-22: IMPLEMENTED. Section 18 records what building it changed about the
design, which is the part a design document usually loses.


0. The ask
----------

Shell prompts, web prompts, and direct messages from Ben (.slims) or Lothsahn (lothsahn)
should get a real answer instead of the player-facing refusal. The refusal that started this
was correct for the surface it was written for:

    "I don't share anything about the codebase, but if the real question is how merging
     belts behaves in game, ask me that one and I'll answer it."

That is discord-answerer.md doing exactly what it says, to somebody it had no reason to
trust. The problem is not the policy. The problem is that the policy is attached to a role,
the role is picked from a doorbell kind, and two of the three surfaces named above have no
doorbell kind at all.


1. What is there today
----------------------

Trust is decided in three places and they do not agree with each other.

The listener decides it once, from Discord's authenticated author.id
(ffdiscord_listener.py, handle_dispatch). One account is known: mentions.lothsahn. Everything else that
addresses the bot is player_mention. Ben is in the config as a ping target
(ffdiscord.py, the config docstring) and nowhere as an authority.

ffwatch decides it again, by kind. LANE_BY_KIND (ffwatch.py) sends ask and mention to
the answer lane and the answerer role, and lothsahn_directive to the dev lane and the
dev-agent role. lane_for (ffwatch.py) exempts shell from classification entirely,
because a prompt typed at this machine's shell has already answered the question
classification exists to ask.

The shell lane then decides it a third time, by subtraction. It gets no role and no plugin
directory (ffwatch.py, build_job), and render_prompt gives it no untrusted-input fence.
The comment there records why: with the Discord framing in place,
`ffbox "what file defines the belt merger?"` came back as a policy refusal addressed to a
player. Unmounting the plugin fixed that case and cost the shell lane max-voice and the rest
of the ff-discord skills as collateral.

Direct messages do not arrive at all. The gateway asks for GUILDS and GUILD_MESSAGES only
(ffdiscord_listener.py, INTENTS), so a DM never rings the doorbell. ffdiscord.py knows channel type
1 is a DM and has no command that opens or reads one.

Web prompts do not exist. ffweb is read-only over a query_only connection and its whole
action surface is approve/reject on the outbound queue, shelled out to ffwatch so that
ffwatch stays the sole writer (ffweb.py, the module docstring and FfwatchActions).

The watch table (ffwatch.py, DEFAULTS) says which channels are watched and what kind of conversation
they hold. It says nothing about who may read them and nothing about when the bot should
speak. Both belong there. Section 5.


2. One dial where there are two
-------------------------------

The tempting fix is a trusted flag that turns the disclosure rules off. It is wrong, and the
reason is worth stating before any of the mechanism.

Trust answers "may this person be told repo internals, and may this person give me work."
It is a fact about the authenticated author.

Venue answers "who else reads the reply." It is a fact about the channel the answer lands in.

They come apart in the case that matters. Lothsahn @-mentions the bot in a public channel and
asks which file defines belt merging. He is entitled to the answer. The reply is a public
Discord post that players read. Answering with `Connectors/PerpendicularConnectorTransferSystem.cs`
discloses repo internals to a hundred strangers, and the fact that the asker was trusted
changes nothing about that.

So: trust gates what may be acted on and what may be said to the asker. Venue gates what may
be said at all. Full disclosure needs both. Section 7 is how the asker still gets the whole
answer without the venue getting it.

A second rule falls out of the same reasoning, and it is the one that keeps a stolen Discord
account from becoming a login on this box:

    An ingress may never grant more capability than the asker already holds by other means.

The person at the shell has a Unix account here and can run any command they like without
asking. Giving the shell lane unrestricted Bash adds nothing. The person in a DM has a Discord
account and nothing else. Their trust is real, but it is trust in a credential that lives on
somebody's phone, so it buys disclosure and a work request, and it does not buy a shell.


3. Trust tiers, and who is one
------------------------------

Two tiers. Resist a third until something actually needs it.

  operator   The people who own this machine and this game. Established only by an
             authenticated ingress fact: a Unix login on the box, an operator-only web
             session, or a Discord author.id in the configured operator set. Never by message
             content, display name, or claim.

  player     Everybody else, including any Discord account not in the set, and including a
             message that says it is from Ben. This is today's untrusted tier and its rules
             do not change.

The set is config, in the "discord" section of ~/.config/ffbox/config.json alongside the
channel and mention tables the CLI already reads. That section rather than the top level,
because the LISTENER needs it and the listener reads only the Discord one. (SUPERSEDED IN PART:
this was written when the Discord keys were a config.json of their own next door; the section
is where they live now, and the argument is unchanged by the move.) ffwatch keeps the parts it
needs under cfg["_discord"], so reaching the operator set from the harness side is one more key
in that tuple, next to server_id, channels and mentions:

    "trust": {
      "operators": {
        "ben":      "226422780445458432",
        "lothsahn": "193210319093497857"
      }
    }

Keyed by name so the config reads as a list of people rather than a list of numbers, and so
the same two ids can seed mentions.ben and mentions.lothsahn, which are empty on this machine
today and are what "@ben" expands to in a post.

The split is worth stating once: WHO is an operator lives with the Discord identity data,
because the listener has to answer that question and the listener reads no other file. WHAT a
channel is (venue, engage, kind) lives in the ffwatch watch table in ~/.config/ffbox/config.json,
because it is harness policy and only ffwatch acts on it.

The ids are snowflakes, resolved once. `.slims` and `lothsahn` are usernames, they are
changeable, and a trust key somebody else can claim by renaming is not a trust key. Nothing in
this design ever compares a username.

An empty or missing trust.operators means nobody is an operator. It never means everybody, and
it never means "well, it arrived as a DM, so."

Tier is a property of a TURN, not of a conversation. It is computed from the author of the
message that raised the turn, every time. A thread where Lothsahn asked something and three
players then reply produces one operator turn and three player turns, and the player turns get
player disclosure even though the conversation row is the same. Storing tier on the
conversation would let a player inherit an operator's clearance by replying underneath it.


4. Venues
---------

Two, and no more.

  private    A channel where internals may be said out loud. Four shapes: a watch entry that
             declares itself private, a DM with an operator, a terminal waiting on `ffbox`,
             and the operator-only web page.

  public     Everything else.

Venue is a property of where the reply goes, not of where the question came from. A question
asked in a DM is answered in that DM, so it is private. A question asked in #general is
answered in #general, so it is public no matter who asked it.

Private venue and operator tier are independent. A private channel says internals may be said
there. It says nothing about who may give the bot work, which is section 3's business.


5. What a watch entry declares
------------------------------

Watching a channel is currently one line saying what kind of conversation it holds. It becomes
the place where both of this design's per-channel decisions are written down, explicitly, at
the moment somebody says "watch this":

    "watch": {
      "ask_claude":  {"kind": "ask",        "forum": false, "venue": "public",  "engage": "all"},
      "bug_reports": {"kind": "bug_report", "forum": true,  "venue": "public",  "engage": "all"},
      "suggestions": {"kind": "suggestion", "forum": true,  "venue": "public",  "engage": "all"},
      "dev_chat":    {"kind": "ask",        "forum": false, "venue": "private", "engage": "mention"}
    }

venue is public or private. Never inferred from Discord's permission bits, for two reasons.
Permissions change without anyone thinking about the bot, and a role edit that widened
#dev-chat would silently reclassify it, with the first sign being a file path posted where it
should not be. And private is a decision rather than an observation: it says "everyone who can
read this channel may see internals", which is a thing to decide on purpose and review on
purpose. Adding a person to a private channel grants them disclosure, and that is the same
weight as adding an operator id.

engage is when the bot wakes at all.

  mention   Only when the bot is @-mentioned or replied to. The default for anything new, and
            the right answer for a channel where people are talking to each other.

  all       Every human message is considered. Set on bug_reports and suggestions, where a
            report is addressed to the project rather than to the bot, and on ask_claude,
            which exists for exactly this.

A missing engage is mention and a missing venue is public, both with a startup warning naming
the channel. The three entries above ship in DEFAULTS with their values spelled out, so an
existing config that names them without the new keys keeps behaving the way it does today; a
channel nobody has classified is quiet and public until somebody says otherwise. That last part
is not an assumption: ffwatch's _deep_merge recurses, so a config entry of
{"kind": "ask", "forum": false} merges over the default entry key by key rather than replacing
it, and the venue and engage defaults survive.

`ffdiscord doctor` should list every watched channel with its venue and engage, and report who
can actually read each declared-private one. The permission drift the previous paragraph is
worried about is invisible until something asks the question out loud.

THE ENGAGEMENT GATE. engage: all is what makes a channel expensive, and it is the answer to
the main design's open "who keeps a thread alive" question. Every human message in a watched
thread wakes a turn today, so three players chatting under a bug report produce three runs that
say nothing. So every message in an engage: all channel goes through a gate first, the first
message of a new thread included. The gate is one cheap model call answering one question: is
a turn worth spending here.

    none        nothing here needs the bot. No turn is created, the message is recorded, and
                the conversation is left alone.

It is deliberately biased toward yes. Bug reports, suggestions and #ask-assistant exist for the
bot to answer, and a missed answer is worse than a wasted run. "Almost always" is not something
a model can act on, so the bias is written as rules instead.

ALWAYS a turn, decided by the harness without asking the model. All three rules are about
engage: all channels; in a mention channel the mention IS the trigger and there is no gate to
override:

  - the first message of a new thread in bug_reports or suggestions. A new thread there is a
    report by construction.
  - any message that @-mentions the bot or replies to one of its messages.
  - any message carrying an attachment. A log or a save is new evidence by definition.

NEVER a turn. This is the closed list the gate may return `none` for:

  - social acknowledgement and nothing else: thanks, a +1, an emoji, "nice".
  - two humans talking to each other with nothing asked of the project, typically after a
    thread is already resolved.
  - a restatement of the message immediately before it, by the same author.

Everything else is a turn. The gate is not a spam filter and it is not judging whether a
question deserves an answer; it catches the small set of messages that ask nothing at all. A
reply carrying repro steps, a version number, "still happening", or a question mark is a turn,
which is the case the gate exists to preserve: a player clarifying a bug, or asking for more
information, still gets an answer.

WHY A MODEL MAY DECIDE THIS AT ALL, when section 9 is emphatic that no model decides tier or
venue: the gate spends money, it does not disclose anything, and both failure directions are
cheap and bounded. Text dressed up to look like a report costs one run, capped by rate_limits.
Text dressed down to look like chatter suppresses a reply to the person who wrote it, which
harms only them. Neither can widen what may be said or what may be touched.

Structurally it is one call and two fields, because it is one read of the same text. This
extends classify_text's existing contract rather than adding a second model call in front of
it:

    {"engage": true|false, "type": "question"|"change", ...}

engage answers "is there a turn". type answers "which lane", and for a player-authored message
in a channel whose kind already decides the lane (ask, bug_report, suggestion) it is ignored,
exactly as today. The gate runs first, lane selection after. The one change to lane selection is
section 8's rule for operator-authored messages, where type is what decides and kind does not.

Both fields fail closed, in their own directions. An error, a timeout, an unparseable answer or
genuine uncertainty gives engage true and type question: a gate that cannot decide answers, and
answers read-only.

A `none` is recorded rather than silent. The message row and the gate's reason go in the
database, so "why did the bot not answer this?" is a question the web page can answer. Nothing
is posted and no reaction is added.

Where the decision lives: the listener stays dumb. It carries ids only, as it does today, and
keeps emitting a doorbell for every message in a watched channel; ffwatch applies engage when
it ingests, because it fetches the full message anyway and can see `mentions` and
`referenced_message` there. One place owns the policy, and a dropped message costs a skipped
ingest rather than a wasted run. The 15-minute catchup sweep applies the same rule, or a
mention-only channel would wake for everything every quarter hour.

Forum threads inherit their parent's venue and engage, since thread events already report the
parent alias.


6. The matrix
-------------

                        venue: public                    venue: private
                        ------------------------------   -----------------------------
  tier: operator        Public-safe answer in the         Answer fully. file:line,
                        channel, and the internals        internals, unreleased work,
                        delivered to the asker's DM.      whatever the question wants.
                        Section 7. Work allowed.          Work allowed.

  tier: player          Today's behaviour, unchanged.     In a declared private channel:
                        discord-answerer as written.      answer fully, no work. In a DM:
                        No work.                          ignore, see section 11.

The bottom-right cell is what a contractor or a guest in #dev-chat gets. They see internals,
because that is what putting them in the channel said. They cannot start work, because that is
a different decision and nobody made it.

One rule this does not touch, in case the two are read as being in tension: discord-answerer.md
forbids anything read in #dev-chat from crossing into a public reply, quoted or paraphrased.
That still holds exactly as written. A private venue governs what may be said INTO that channel.
It does not make the channel a source a public answer may be grounded in.


7. The split reply
------------------

The top-right cell of the matrix is the interesting one, and it is a genuinely new outbound
shape: one turn, two destinations.

An operator asks in a public channel. The run produces both halves:

  public half    Written for the channel, under player rules. No file paths, no internals,
                 no unreleased content. It answers the part of the question that can be
                 answered in public, and says the rest went to DM.

  private half   Written for the asker. Everything the question actually wanted.

Rules that make this safe rather than a leak with extra steps:

  a. The public half is composed to STAND ALONE, then the private half is written. It is
     never a redaction of the private half. A redaction leaks its own shape: "the merge
     behaviour lives in the [REDACTED] system" tells a reader there is a system with a name,
     and often which one. Write the public answer as though the private one does not exist.

  b. The public half may say that detail went to DM. It may not summarise what the detail
     was. "Sent you the specifics" is fine. "Sent you the file, it's in the connector code"
     is not.

  c. Only tier operator produces a private half. A player asking the same question gets
     today's behaviour: a public-safe answer, or an escalation. There is no DM path for a
     player, so there is nothing for a jailbreak to aim at.

  d. The private half goes to the ASKER, and only the asker. Not to every operator, not to a
     shared internal channel. If Ben asks, Ben gets the DM. Lothsahn finds out by reading the
     web page, which has the whole run in it anyway.

  e. If the DM cannot be delivered (DMs closed, bot blocked, no shared guild, Discord error),
     the public half still posts and the private half is HELD in the outbound queue with the
     error recorded. It is never downgraded into the public message, never appended, never
     retried into the channel. A failed private delivery is a queue row a human clears.

     Held here must be its OWN state, not the queue's existing approval-pending. Those rows
     mean "waiting for a human to say yes" and `ffwatch approve` releases them; an undeliverable
     private half released by that command would try the same dead channel again. Call it
     undeliverable, make it terminal, and let a human requeue it by hand after fixing the cause.

  f. If the whole answer is public-safe, there is no private half and nothing is sent. The
     split is a response to the content, not a habit.

  g. There is no split in a private venue. An operator asking in #dev-chat or in a DM gets one
     reply, in place, with everything in it.

Mechanically this is one more field on the structured verdict. The verdict already carries the
summary the host composes a reply from; it grows a second, optional field for the private half.
The host sends both, from the host, composed on the host, exactly as section 11 of the main
design requires. No container reaches Discord and that does not change.

This makes the DM plumbing in section 11 a dependency of the public operator case, not just of
the DM case. It moves earlier in the order of work.


8. Where each ingress lands
---------------------------

  shell         operator / private. Unchanged from what ships today except that it stops
                achieving its policy by unmounting the plugin. See section 10.

  web prompt    operator / private. Section 12.

  DM from an    operator / private. New. Section 11.
  operator

  DM from       player / private, and the answer is to not answer. Section 11.
  anyone else

  message in a  Venue and wake policy from the watch entry. Tier from the author, as
  watched       everywhere else. #dev-chat is a new entry: private, mention-only.
  channel

  operator      operator / public, with a split reply. Already half-exists as
  mention in    lothsahn_directive, extended to cover every id in trust.operators rather than
  a public      the single lothsahn key.
  channel

  everything    player / public. Untouched.
  else

LANE, FOR AN OPERATOR MESSAGE. Today lothsahn_directive goes to the dev lane unconditionally,
so "which file defines belt merging" from Lothsahn takes a Unity-enabled write lane and the
machine's one Unity slot to answer a question. That is worth fixing here rather than
leaving as an inconsistency, because section 6 promises operators can work in a private channel
whose watch kind (ask) would otherwise pin every message there to the read-only answer lane.

The rule: for an operator-authored message, the channel's kind does NOT decide the lane. The
type classifier does, exactly as it does for an unclassified channel: question goes to the
answer lane, change goes to the dev lane. Tier and venue are still not the classifier's
business (section 9); it is only choosing between read-only and write for somebody already
entitled to both.

For a player-authored message nothing changes: kind decides the lane as it does today.


9. Who decides, and what the container is told
----------------------------------------------

Worth being exact about, because there are three models in this pipeline and only one of them
is the bot that writes the reply.

TIER AND VENUE ARE DECIDED BY THE HOST, IN PLAIN CODE, WITH NO MODEL INVOLVED. ffwatch runs on
the box, reads Discord's authenticated author.id off the dispatch, looks it up in
trust.operators, reads venue off the watch entry, and writes the answer into job.json before
the container is started. It is a dictionary lookup. That is deliberate and it is the single
most important property in this design: disclosure must never depend on a model reading text
that a stranger wrote.

The classifier is the second model. It decides question, change or none over untrusted text,
chooses a lane, and fails closed (ffwatch.py, classify_text and lane_for). It decides
CAPABILITY and, with section 5's gate, WHETHER TO RUN AT ALL. It never touches tier or venue,
and this design does not give it a way to. That is the line: a model may decide what a message
costs, never what may be said about it. Section 5 has the reasoning.

The container's Claude is the third. It receives tier and venue as facts and writes prose that
respects them, including both halves of a split reply. It cannot see the bot token, cannot
reach Discord at all, cannot change its own tier, and cannot post. The host composes and sends
every reply from the structured verdict it returns.

What the container is told, and where each layer comes from:

  the prompt        `claude -p <job.prompt>`. Written by the host, per turn, in
                    ffwatch.py render_prompt. Today: which lane and role, the
                    untrusted-input fence, the <discord> block of message text, harness notes,
                    the rebase note. This design adds two lines to it, stated as harness facts:

                        This turn was raised by an OPERATOR (Discord id 193210319093497857,
                        in the configured operator set). Your public reply goes to a channel
                        players read. Write it under the player rules. If the real answer
                        needs file paths, source citations or unreleased work, put that in the
                        private half of your verdict; the harness DMs it to the asker.

  the system        `--append-system-prompt`, built in ffbox/discord-task.sh as
  preamble          PREAMBLE_QUESTION / PREAMBLE_CHANGE / PREAMBLE_SHELL. This is the layer
                    that already tells a lane it cannot commit, cannot push, and cannot post,
                    and that whatever it puts in `summary` IS the reply. The split reply needs
                    one paragraph here explaining the second verdict field, because that is
                    mechanical rather than editorial.

  the plugin        `--plugin-dir /ffbox/plugins/ff-discord`, mounted read-only. The role
                    files (discord-answerer.md and the rest) and the skills (max-voice) live
                    here. This is where the standing disclosure policy actually is, and
                    section 10 is the edit it needs.

  the verdict       `--json-schema`. The shape of what comes back. Grows the private-half
  schema            field.

  the tool list     `--tools`, `--allowedTools`, `--disallowed-tools`, all from job.json.
                    Structural: an excluded tool is never offered to the model.

The two new job fields:

    "trust":  {"tier": "operator", "actor": "193210319093497857", "why": "trust.operators.lothsahn"}
    "venue":  {"kind": "public", "reply_to": "channel:<id>", "private_to": "dm:<user_id>"}

Anything inside <discord> that argues about tier is untrusted text making a claim, exactly like
a message that says it is from Ben, and it is handled the same way: ignored, and reported.

Record both fields on the turn row so the web page can show why a run got what it got. An
unexpected elevation should be visible afterwards without reading a transcript.


10. What the roles become
-------------------------

discord-answerer.md keeps its untrusted-input section verbatim. What changes is that its
disclosure rules become conditional on the declared venue rather than on the role being loaded
at all:

  - The "never reveal file paths, config, repo internals" rule is scoped to the public half of
    a reply. It binds every public post regardless of who asked.
  - The escalate-don't-answer rules for roadmap, pricing and unreleased content stay as they
    are for the public half, and drop for tier operator in a private venue. Escalating a
    roadmap question to Ben when Ben is the one asking is a bug.
  - Voice, the abuse rules, and the identify-as-an-AI rule bind everywhere and are not
    conditional on anything.
  - The role gains section 7's split-reply discipline, written as rules about what the public
    half may imply, because that is where the leak would actually happen.

The plugin_dir = None special case for the shell lane goes away. Mount the plugin on every
lane, mount no role on shell, and let the venue declaration carry the policy. The shell lane
gets max-voice and the ff-discord skills back, and a fourth ingress arriving next year needs a
venue value rather than a fourth special case in build_job.

discord-dev-agent.md gets one edit: its authorization paragraph currently names the Lothsahn
account specifically. It becomes "an id in the configured operator set", which is what the
harness will actually be checking.


11. Direct messages: what has to exist first
--------------------------------------------

DMs are the only genuinely new plumbing in this design, and section 7 makes them a dependency
of the public operator case too.

The doorbell needs the DIRECT_MESSAGES intent (1 << 12) added to INTENTS. It is not privileged
and needs no Discord approval. MESSAGE_CONTENT is still not requested and still not needed:
the listener carries ids, and ffdiscord pulls the text over REST with the bot token, which
intents do not gate.

Detecting one takes care, because MESSAGE_CREATE does not carry the channel's type. What it
carries is guild_id, and only for guild messages, so ABSENCE OF guild_id is the DM signal at
the listener. Group DMs are absent it too and cannot be told apart from a one-to-one DM on the
dispatch alone; that distinction is made on the ffwatch side, which can fetch
`GET /channels/{id}` and read `type` and `recipients`.

The new branch has to come BEFORE the _bot_is_addressed fall-through, not after it. That
function looks for the bot in `mentions` or as the author of `referenced_message`, and a plain
DM has neither, so a DM reaching it today is silently dropped. The rule is:

    no guild_id, and author.id in trust.operators   -> emit operator_dm
    no guild_id, anyone else                        -> emit nothing

A DM is not a watch entry and has no declared venue or engage. Both are derived. Venue is
private, and there is no other value, because a non-operator DM never becomes a turn. Engage is
always true: a message sent to the bot in a DM is addressed to it by construction, so the
section 5 gate does not run.

Ignoring non-operator DMs is a deliberate choice rather than an oversight. Any user who shares
a guild with the bot can open a DM with it. A DM has no moderator watching, no other players
to correct a wrong answer, and no public record, which makes it the best possible place to
work on a jailbreak in private. #ask-assistant is the supported surface, and it stays the
supported surface.

On the ffwatch side, a DM conversation has no alias, so conversation_kind must handle it
explicitly rather than falling through to "unknown". Kind operator_dm is classified for TYPE
and routed by section 8's rule for operator messages: a question gets the read-only answer
lane, a change gets the dev lane. It is NOT pinned to one lane the way shell is, because an
operator DM is as likely to be "which file does X" as "go fix X". Then ffwatch fetches the
channel: type 3 (group DM) is dropped here, per section 15.

Sending needs `ffdiscord dm open <user_id>` (POST /users/@me/channels) and the ability to post
to a raw channel id rather than a configured alias. reply_channel needs the same. Cache the DM
channel id on the operator's row so a reply does not re-open the channel every turn, and treat
a stale cached id as a re-open rather than a failure.


12. The web front door
----------------------

The page is an operator surface. Everything in this design that says "operator" applies to
whoever is typing into it: same tier as the shell, same private venue, same capability.

Written in revision 2, this section had to hedge, because the page had no login and the only
thing keeping players off it was the loopback bind. That changed underneath the design: ffweb
now serves TLS and admits nobody until they log in, with a credential table keyed by lowercase
name holding exactly `ben` and `lothsahn`, and a session that survives a restart and times out
after an hour of inactivity.

So the identity is real and the rule can be stated properly:

    The web ingress's operator identity is the AUTHENTICATED ACCOUNT NAME, mapped into
    trust.operators by key. Not the source address, and not the fact that somebody reached the
    port.

The two tables happen to hold the same two names today, and that is a coincidence of who was
added first rather than a guarantee. They are separate tables in separate files, so the mapping
is a lookup that can miss: an ffweb account with no matching trust.operators key is not an
operator, and gets nothing. Fail closed, as everywhere else.

The page is bound to a LAN address on the build server, deliberately: it is where the queue,
the transcripts and the verification rows are read, and the people who read them are not always
sitting at the box. The login and TLS are what hold it shut, and that is the arrangement rather
than a lapse from a loopback ideal.

Two things still make this login weaker than a Unix account on the box, and both are worth
fixing, because section 2's rule says an ingress may not grant more than the asker already
holds:

  - FFWEB_PASSWORD sets ONE password for every account in the table, so the two accounts are
    not distinguishable by anything secret. Per-account passwords are the next thing to do here.
  - The certificate is self-signed, so the browser warning is accurate and the operator is
    trained to click through it. That protects the password from passive capture and not from
    an active man in the middle.

Both are reasons to be careful about WHICH network the bind faces, which is a deployment choice
made in the config rather than something the code enforces.

ffweb currently writes nothing, and that property is worth keeping, so a prompt box does what
approve/reject already does: shell out to ffwatch, which owns the database.

    POST /prompt  ->  ffwatch submit --source web "<text>"  ->  the rows a shell prompt makes

The kind is `web` rather than `shell`, and that is the whole of the difference. --source is
RECORDED, not obeyed: LANE_BY_KIND sends both to the shell lane, LOCAL_KINDS holds both, so the
capability set, the operator tier, the private venue and the it-has-nowhere-to-post rule are one
implementation serving two front doors. What it buys is a question the record could not answer
before — did this come from the page or from a terminal — asked of a list where both used to
read "shell". A front door that behaved differently would be a second pipeline, which is the
thing this design keeps declining to grow.

One field and one button. It carried a unity checkbox for as long as Unity was optional; that
went with the flag it mirrored, and there is now nothing to configure beside the text.

No flag in front of it. This was tried the other way first, with a --enable-prompts to match
--enable-actions, on the reasoning that submitting work is a larger grant than approving a
queued reply. The reasoning holds for approve/reject and does not hold here: section 13 already
sets web (operator-only) equal to shell, so the person reading this page is the person who
could open a terminal on this box, and a switch in front of the box only ever produced an
operator finding a dead page and a note naming a flag. Starting a conversation is what the page
is FOR. The login is the grant, and the bind address is where the decision about who reaches
the login gets made.

That leaves approve/reject as the only flagged surface, and it stays flagged for a reason that
is about DISCLOSURE and not about capability: it releases a reply into a public Discord thread,
where a prompt runs work in a container that cannot post at all. Same reason the startup
refusal on a non-loopback bind is written against --enable-actions alone — a test against the
prompt box would refuse every non-loopback bind there is, which is a way of saying the bind is
already the decision.

One existing guard does have to LEARN about the prompt route rather than covering it for free.
The Origin check has to cover it in its REFUSING form: _route_post refuses a mismatched Origin
on the actions and merely logs it on the session verbs, and a prompt is an action. A CSRF hole
into `ffwatch submit` is a stranger running work on this box.

That check turned out to be refusing the page's own forms, and the culprit was a header the
page sends itself. Under `Referrer-Policy: no-referrer` a browser serialises the Origin of a
non-GET, non-CORS request as the literal `null` — Fetch says the Origin header is covered by
the referrer policy — so every form ffweb serves arrived looking cross-site. The prompt box
403'd itself; the login form survived only because the session verbs log and continue. The
policy is `same-origin` now, which keeps the privacy the header was for while a same-origin
POST still carries a real Origin, and `Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin` is accepted alongside it as
a signal page script cannot forge. Worth remembering when a fourth ingress adds a form: a suite
that posts without an Origin header at all takes the "not a browser, allow" branch and will
never see this.

CONTINUING ONE, WHICH IS A DIFFERENT ACT FROM STARTING ONE. The box above opens a
conversation; the box on /conversation/<id> adds a message to the end of the one being read.
The difference is not the form, it is what the turn carries:

    POST /actions/reply  ->  ffwatch submit --conversation <id> "<text>"  ->  turn N of that
                             conversation, which resumes its session id

That resume is the whole reason the box exists. Turn N of a conversation reuses the session the
earlier turns wrote, so the follow-up arrives with everything the agent already did in front of
it. Asking again through the top box is a new conversation on a cold container: the person
re-explains the bug to something that just spent four minutes reading the code for it, and the
record splits into two threads about one question. Nothing new was needed to make the resume
work — build_job has resumed a conversation's session since the Discord lanes did, and a local
conversation was simply never given a second turn before.

LOCAL CONVERSATIONS ONLY, refused on both sides. A message inserted here carries this box's
unix user as its author, which is not a Discord identity the trust rules can read, and the turn
it produced would queue a reply into a public thread on the strength of it. Whether the person
at the keyboard may speak in that thread is Discord's question; a login on this box does not
answer it. So ffwatch refuses a non-local conversation — it is the writer, and that is the
refusal that counts — and the route refuses it as well, because a page that renders a form it
knows will be rejected is a page lying about what it can do. A Discord thread gets a sentence
saying where it is answered instead of a box.

A FOLLOW-UP TYPED MID-RUN WAITS, AND BATCHES. This is the one place the obvious implementation
is wrong. create_turn sets the conversation back to 'queued', which is the single state the
scheduler reads as free, so a turn created while a container is working would launch alongside
it — and two runs resuming one session id fork the transcript irrecoverably. The message is
therefore recorded and left UNCLAIMED, and claim_turns gives it a turn on the pass after the
run ends. That is exactly what a burst of Discord follow-ups already does (design section 12),
so several messages typed during one long run become one turn rather than a queue of them, and
the placeholder in the box says so before the button is pressed.

claim_turns had to learn this, and only just this. It refuses local kinds outright today,
because submit() writes a message and then a turn and a crash between the two INSERTs would
otherwise leave the sweep re-answering an opening prompt that already has an answer — the
2026-08-22 incident where five imported shell runs burned five containers. The narrowing is
"local conversations that already have a turn": a crashed submit cannot have one, and a
follow-up always does.

One bug fell out of writing it, in a place nothing had exercised: render_prompt handed the
shell lane job["messages"][-1] and nothing else, so a batched turn would have delivered only
the last thing typed and silently dropped the rest. It joins them now.

Reply venue is private, and the reply is the run record itself: the timeline row, the
transcript index, the result text. The same thing a waiting terminal reads.

That record has to be LIVE, and at first it was not. The transcript was indexed in exactly one
place — finish_run, after the container exits — so an operator who asked a question through the
page watched an empty timeline for three and a half minutes and then got the whole history in
one lump. Nothing about the pipeline required that: the container writes Claude Code's session
JSONL into a bind mount, so the file is on the host and growing the entire time, and every
launch runs on its own thread, so the scheduler is free to read it. It now does, every pass, for
every run whose terminal_state is still NULL; finish_run keeps its final pass for the tail. The
two passes overlap by construction, which is what the uuid de-dupe, the continued seq and the
lock around the indexer are for. A waiting terminal streams; a waiting page had nothing to
stream, and this is what it streams instead.


13. Capability, separately from disclosure
------------------------------------------

SUPERSEDED, 2026-08-25, by design/single_lane_design.txt sections 2 and 6. Capability stops
being set per ingress: every run gets Read,Grep,Glob,Edit,Write,Bash. The section's own
principle is what survives, inverted — disclosure and capability were always independent, and
the new design keeps the disclosure half (tier, venue, the split reply) while making the
capability half uniform.

Two specific reversals, so nobody implements from the text below. The per-ingress rows are gone,
including "operator DM gets WRITE_ALLOWED but no unrestricted Bash" and "player in a private
channel is read-only". And max_unity_runs, which this section argued to keep and reframe as a
resource ceiling, is deleted outright: with no way to launch without an editor it counted the
same runs max_concurrent_runs counts, and a second knob that never diverges from the first is
not a knob. max_concurrent_runs stays at 2. UNITY ON EVERY LANE, below, is unchanged and is now
simply true of every run.

Disclosure and capability are set independently, per section 2's second rule.

  shell          Bash unrestricted, as it ships today. The person could open a terminal.

  web (operator- Same as shell. Same person, same box, different window.
  only)

  operator DM,   Full disclosure, and work is allowed: branch, verify, commit, PR, with the
  operator in a  WRITE_ALLOWED tool set the Discord write lanes already use. No unrestricted
  private        Bash, no git push, no gh. The harness publishes, as it does for every write
  channel        lane. A stolen phone gets someone the answers and a pull request somebody
                 has to merge. It does not get them a shell.

  operator       Whichever lane section 8's rule picks. A question takes the read-only answer
  mention in     lane, which is a change from today, where every lothsahn_directive takes the
  public         dev lane whether or not there is anything to build. A change takes the dev
                 lane, unchanged. Both produce the split reply from section 7.

  player in a    Read-only. Full disclosure to that channel, no work, and the text is still
  private        untrusted input.
  channel

Everything that actually contains a lane is untouched: no credential in the container, a clone
destroyed at the end of the run, no path from any container to Discord, every reply composed
on the host from the structured verdict.

UNITY ON EVERY LANE. The --no-unity launch goes away, and not only for the Discord lanes: the
flag itself is gone, from ffbox, from `ffwatch submit`, and from the web prompt box, which no
longer has a checkbox to clear. Every container, read or write, shell or Discord, gets a working
editor, because a worker answering "what is the actual power draw of X" should be able to go and
look rather than infer from source and hedge. Unity being optional was a per-submission answer
to a question nobody wants to be asked at submission time.

Revision 7 made a meal of this. It assumed max_unity_runs=1 was a hard licensing constraint and
designed around it: lazy activation, a flock on a host path shared by every container, a bounded
wait, the seat held from activate_unity through -returnlicense. All of that existed to serialise
something that does not need serialising.

The premise was wrong, and the README said as much about itself. ffbox does not copy game-ci's
`dbus-uuidgen > /etc/machine-id`, so every container inherits the base image's machine id and
they all look like one machine to Unity. From that the README reasoned that two runs at once are
a race rather than two seats, and then wrote the honest part: "Whether concurrent activation
under one identity works at all is untested here." Lothsahn has since run four game-ci containers
in parallel with no licensing trouble. That is the test, and it passed.

So the change is the small one it should have been:

  capability     Every lane gets an editor. It is no longer a lane property at all — the key
                 is gone from LANE_CAPABILITIES, because a table of per-lane values that are
                 all the same value is a switch pretending to be a decision. The editor and a
                 warm Library are in every container, and activation stays where it is, eager,
                 at container start. The classifier's needs_unity field goes with it: it was
                 asked on every classification and read by nothing.

  the ceiling    max_unity_runs stops being a licensing answer. Keep the knob, because four
                 editors on one box is a real CPU and memory ceiling worth having, but reframe
                 it as a resource limit and default it to match max_concurrent_runs instead of
                 pinning it at 1. The README paragraph that calls raising it "a licensing-server
                 question, not a config question" is now wrong and gets corrected with it.

                 With no way to launch without an editor, it now counts the same runs
                 max_concurrent_runs counts, and the lower of the two is what bites. Both knobs
                 stay: they answer different questions — how many agents, how many editors —
                 and the day those diverge is the day the second one earns its keep.

  verification   Unchanged, and still write-lanes only: a read-only lane changed nothing, so
                 there is nothing to verify and no reason to spend a Unity run proving it.

One sharp edge survives, worth knowing about rather than designing around: the return-licence
trap fires when a container exits, for a machine identity every container shares. Four parallel
runs almost certainly exited at different times while others were still working, so this is
probably fine too, and the likely reason is that the licence is checked when the editor STARTS
rather than continuously. If a problem ever shows up it will look like an activation failure in
a container that was already alive, not a test that died mid-run. activate_unity already retries
five times with backoff, so the failure mode is slow rather than broken.

THE TRADE, SAID OUT LOUD, and this part is unchanged. The read-only lanes have no Bash at all
as of this revision, 2026-08-22 (the trade below is what changed that, and READ_TOOLS is
"Read,Grep,Glob,Bash" from then on): READ_TOOLS is "Read,Grep,Glob", and the main design calls that its strongest containment
claim, because the lanes fed untrusted player text are contained structurally by the tool list
rather than by a policy the model is asked to follow. Unity means Bash, because ffverify is a
command.

The allow list is documented as scope reduction and explicitly not a boundary: a trailing `*`
matches the whole command string, so `Bash(ffverify *)` also permits `ffverify && anything`.
Measured, in ffwatch.py's WRITE_ALLOWED note. So the read lanes get EXACT patterns and no glob,
enumerating the legal invocations rather than opening the argument space:

    Bash(ffverify)
    Bash(ffverify --assemblies FFEditorTests)

The write lanes keep `Bash(ffverify *)`, which they already have and which changes nothing about
their position.

What is actually traded: the answer lane stops being incapable of running a command and becomes
allowed to run one. What still contains it is unchanged, and is what the main design says
contains a lane in the first place: no credential of any kind in the container, a clone
destroyed at the end of the run, and no path from any container to Discord.

The cost is warmup. Every answer run now pays for a Unity-capable container, and the warm
Library mount (04-warmLibrary.sh) is the thing standing between that and a cold import per
question.

STILL OPEN: is ffverify the whole surface? It runs EditMode tests and nothing else, with no
-executeMethod, deliberately: with the raw editor allowed a lane could run arbitrary editor
code. "Go and look with Unity" through the test suite is a narrower thing than driving the
editor, and a broader entry point would put arbitrary editor code execution within reach of
untrusted player text. Worth deciding on purpose rather than discovering when somebody asks for
it.


14. Player-triggered work, later
--------------------------------

Not in this change, but the design should not close the door on it, because the seam already
exists: the triage lane's AUTOFIX verdict enqueues a fix job today (main design, section 13).
A player who files a good bug report can already cause work to happen. What a later change
adds is the direct path, for a straightforward question or a small clear bug.

Three constraints that should hold whenever that is built, all of which this design already
sets up:

  a. A player-triggered run is still tier player. Its reply is public-safe, its transcript is
     internal, and it never gets a private half. Triggering work is not clearance.

  b. Capability comes from the LANE, never from the request. A player's bug report routes to
     the fix lane with the fix lane's tool set and the fix lane's ceilings (rate_limits["fix"],
     and the Unity ceiling of section 13), and the output is a pull request a human merges.
     A request that argues for more capability is untrusted text arguing, which is the case
     fail-closed classification was built for.

  c. Scope is decided by the harness, not by the asker. The gate decides whether anything runs
     and the classifier decides question or change, and a failure to decide either stays
     read-only.


15. Fail-closed rules
---------------------

  - Unknown or unresolvable author id: player.
  - trust.operators missing, empty, or unparseable: nobody is an operator, and log it loudly
    at startup the way the listener already warns about a missing mentions.lothsahn.
  - A watch entry with no venue: public, with a startup warning naming the channel.
  - A watch entry with no engage: mention, with the same warning.
  - A channel with no watch entry at all: public, and mention-only by construction, since
    nothing else there produces a doorbell.
  - A DM channel with more than one recipient (group DM): not private, and not operator. The
    listener cannot see this — the dispatch carries no channel type — so ffwatch checks it with
    `GET /channels/{id}` before the conversation is created, and drops it there.
  - Gate or classifier error, timeout, unparseable answer, or uncertainty: engage true, type
    question, read-only. Never none.
  - A message that addresses the bot directly, carries an attachment, or opens a new thread in
    bug_reports or suggestions: always a turn, and the gate is not consulted.
  - Private half cannot be delivered: parked in its own undeliverable state, terminal, never
    downgraded into the public message and never released by `ffwatch approve` (section 7e).


16. Decisions and open questions
--------------------------------

Settled:

  a. A public answer to an operator is held to the player register, and the internals go to
     the asker's DM. Section 7.
  b. Operators may start work from a DM, with the constrained write tool set. Section 13.
  c. The web page is an operator surface with shell capability, conditional on staying
     operator-only. Section 12.
  d. Two venues, not three. Declared on the watch entry, never inferred. Section 5.
  e. Ben is 226422780445458432, Lothsahn is 193210319093497857. Section 3.
  f. Mention-only by default. ask_claude, bug_reports and suggestions consider every message,
     behind the engagement gate. Section 5.
  g. The gate runs on new threads as well as replies, and is biased toward answering by an
     explicit always-turn list rather than by an instruction to be generous. Section 5.

Still open:

  h. Does approve_before_send gate a private reply? The outbound approval gate exists to stop
     a bad public post. I would gate the public half and let the private half go straight out,
     since its only reader is the person who asked. That does mean the two halves of one turn
     can arrive minutes apart when the queue is gated.

  i. Should the private half ever be a LINK instead of content? The whole run is already on the
     web page, in more detail than a DM can hold. A link is cheaper and leaks nothing to
     Discord, and now that the page has an operator-reachable address it is not useless off the
     box either. Content now, link once the address is stable enough to paste into a DM?

  j. Operator DMs are a conversation with no channel to scope them. Two unrelated questions
     DM'd an hour apart: same conversation and one growing session, or a new conversation per
     top-level message? Threads and reply chains give the guild ingresses a natural boundary
     and a DM has none. My inclination is a new conversation per message unless it is a reply,
     with the session-retirement machinery unchanged.

  k. The gate's `none` list is a closed list in section 5, which means widening it is a config
     or a policy change rather than a prompt tweak. Is that the right rigidity? The looser
     alternative is a described posture the model applies, which drifts, and drifts quietly.


17. Order of work
-----------------

  1. trust.operators, the two resolved ids, venue and engage on every watch entry, the setup
     script that seeds them and mentions.{ben,lothsahn}, and the fail-closed startup warnings.
     Nothing behaves differently yet.
  2. engage, applied in ingest and in the catchup sweep, plus the gate: the none outcome, the
     always-turn list, and the recorded reason behind a none. This is the piece that changes
     cost, and it is worth landing before anything wakes more often.
  3. trust and venue on the job and the turn row, computed for the lanes that already exist.
     Shell becomes operator/private explicitly instead of by unmounting the plugin. The
     answerer's disclosure rules become venue-conditional, and the preamble in discord-task.sh
     learns the venue vocabulary. Player behaviour is unchanged and the belt-merger case is
     fixed at its root.
  4. #dev-chat as a watched private mention-only channel.
  5. DM plumbing: intent, listener rule, conversation kind, `dm open`, raw-channel posting.
  6. The split reply: the second verdict field, the two-destination sender, the held-not-
     downgraded failure path, and the answerer's rules about what the public half may imply.
  7. The web prompt box, which reuses step 3 whole.
  8. Unity on every lane: unity true across LANE_CAPABILITIES, max_unity_runs reframed as a
     resource ceiling and raised to match max_concurrent_runs, exact-match ffverify on the read
     lanes, post-exit verification left on the write lanes only, and the README's licensing
     paragraph corrected where it calls concurrency untested.
  9. Extend operator authority from the single lothsahn key to the whole set, in both the
     listener and discord-dev-agent.md, and with it section 8's lane rule: an operator message
     is routed by type rather than pinned to the dev lane. These two belong together, because
     widening the operator set without the lane rule would put both accounts on the Unity write
     lane for every question they ask.


18. What building it changed
----------------------------

Written after the fact, because the interesting half of a design is where it turned out to be
wrong. Everything in sections 0-17 shipped; these are the places the shape moved.

  A lane must not be demoted by a gate call it never asked for. The gate runs the classifier on
  channels whose kind ALREADY decides the lane, and the classifier fails closed to "question,
  read-only". So the first bug_reports thread after the gate landed came out in the answer lane
  rather than triage: a gate failure had dragged the lane down with it, though the kind decided
  that lane and the classifier was never consulted about it. Classifications now carry
  lane_source, and only a classifier-chosen lane falls back.

  Engage applies where there is a watch ENTRY, not where there is an alias. A doorbell names the
  channel it fired for whether or not anything is watching it, and the first cut gated on that
  name. The result was that an unwatched channel — where the doorbell only fires BECAUSE the bot
  was addressed — fell to mention-only and declined itself. The policy belongs to the entry, and
  where there is no entry the doorbell is the policy.

  "Was the bot spoken to" had to become a stored column. The gate needs it long after the raw
  Discord payload is gone, so message.addressed is computed at ingest while `mentions` is still
  in hand. That needed the bot's own id, which nothing on the ffwatch side knew, hence
  `ffdiscord whoami`. A failure to resolve it treats every message as addressed: the noisy
  direction, not the silent one, and said loudly at startup.

  A thread opening is "this thread has produced no turn yet", not "this message id equals the
  thread id". Discord gives a forum starter the same id as its thread, but a bundle does not
  always carry it, and the id form failed on exactly the case the rule exists to protect.

  conversation.watch_alias exists because the alias is known at ingest, and reverse-mapping it
  from a channel id later needs a table that may not be filled in.

  The undeliverable private half needed its own status rather than the queue's existing held
  state, which section 7e predicted, and it is worth repeating why: `ffwatch approve` releases
  pending rows, and releasing this one retries the same closed DM.

  `str(None)` is the string "None", which matched no author on earth. An ordinary bug, recorded
  because it lived in the middle of the trust lookup and looked exactly like working software.

  A listener test fixture had been under-specifying guild_id on guild dispatches. It did not
  matter until the absence of guild_id started meaning "this is a DM".

  max_unity_runs is 2 rather than 1, and the reason it could be raised at all was a measurement
  rather than a design decision: see revision 9.

  Deployment order matters once, and only once. `ffdiscord whoami` ships in the plugin, and the
  plugin is served from a version-pinned cache, so an ffwatch that updates ahead of the plugin
  treats every message as addressed until `registerAgents.sh` runs. Loud, safe and temporary,
  but worth knowing before wondering why a mention-only channel woke for everything.
